OK.
Now as a Java developer you have several templating technologies to choose from.
Now if you're not familiar with templates it's the technology we use to generate dynamic hastening e-mail.
Like when we're pulling up in our database and we put it on a web page.
In this lecture I'm going to introduce you to timely.
Now I want to point out that it is pronounced time leaf not famed leaf.
My first started using timely I was mistakenly calling it time leaf.
And you can go on to YouTube on my channel and I do have an earlier video where I was calling it timely
from the video and somebody called me out on it.
So it happens now timely for the java tablet engine.
It's an alternative to Java server pages and there's actually a number of alternatives to GSP as we
can choose from.
And I'm guessing it's because GSP is just so awful to work with I wouldn't use Jaspers forever.
So I hate them.
The first stable release of time leaf came out in 2011.
The current releases on Version 3 which include some very cool features are reactive springs and spring
five time leaf is known as a natural template engine meaning you can view the templates naturally in
your browser this module we're going to take a quick look at running a simple HCM Al page to show a
list of books we're only doing a quick introduction to time leaf in this video.
There's a lot more to it.
I actually have a whole course on timely and we're going to see a lot more of time live in this course.
But like some of the new reactive programming stuff in spring five I'm kind of excited to get to that
personally.
But for now that's a whole different subject.
I mean jump over to ontology and we're going take a look at our first time live template okay.
I've gone ahead and created the HCM Al template for timely.
I didn't want you to sit there and watch me code everything here and say Oh boring watching people write
up HMO.
So but I do want to step through what's going on so you can see that it looks like normal HDMI oil and
I won't point out this is a natural template engine.
So I'm going to bring it up in Chrome real quick and we can see that I have just generic e-mail here.
A little tail that's being generated with a book in there and actually change that product was to book
list
so that's better it make this a book list make it a little more legible and you can see this is like
editing chasing man alive I can come over here and just do a refresh.
So when you're doing things like this in real time you're not messing with running it and deploying
it and restarting the application server.
So that's one of the things I really like about working with time leaf is that I can rapidly do stuff
like this and get the Asian melt looking good without having the baggage of Tomcat running.
So it's a pretty nice feature of having a national template engine.
He had worked with GSP as you know you need to compile and deploy and restart Tomcat to see changes
which is no fun at all so let's look at the time leaf specific feature so right at the top there we
have a standard HCM all tag for H2 and 0 5 and then mind to there we have HCM now and you can see that
we're specifying an Excel namespace and this is a namespace for the time tag.
So this is important.
This is what allows us to add in the tags that is looking for a well structured excel.
And then beyond that that's also standard HMO.
But let's take a closer look at line 16 to line 20.
This is where the time leave tags kick in.
Now online 16 you can see that's where I'm doing an each block.
So the setting up in an iterator if you remember in our controller come back over here show you that
can Rimmer and the controller assign a an attribute called books from the book repository and this is
just going to return a noticeable.
You can see that it is returning an admirable to timely and timely if can work with that at no use.
Off the top of the list pretty much anything you can would iterate over lists its maps.
That's all you can.
I know there's a couple others in there but anything that you can iterate any type of list structure
inside a Java generally timely we can iterate over it so let's jump back over here and that sets up
my iterator and now I have my table rows and so that line 16 says look at the books attribute and iterate
over it and it's like setting up a variable called book and then on line 17 we're using another time
leaf tag for text and this kind of clever how timely for eggs it's using the x model attribute of the
age context which is oh the X male namespace that we specified up there in line 2 and then inside the
dollar saying curly bracket I'm specifying the object book from line 16 and then the property.
So this is a Java object so we need to match up all those properties and we do follow the dot notation
so we're not under the covers timely if it's going to execute the getter on that object.
So kind of nice how does the dot notation reminds me a lot of groovy which is quite nice to work with
but that's how it works in a nutshell on line 19 you can see how you can navigate down through properties
on the object model so if you were to read what it's doing under the covers there's taking the book
object and getting the publisher running get publisher and then get name of the publisher and know what
time life is going to do you can see where on the I.D. and line 17 there.
I do have one two three and that's what gets displayed when I look at it in Chrome so that that's what's
natural about it that's a natural value.
So let's go ahead and fire up spring boot now and we are going to take a look at how spring runners
at
they're up and alive.
Come over here and I'm gonna do a refresh.
So I'm just going to port 80 80 slash books
and now we can see that the iterator is worked.
I have ideas three domains urban design author FU That's publisher I'm sorry so we've got one mistake
here that should be a publisher my bad
see if that refreshes right away I saw we'd have to restart spring at this point I'll show you how to
use Spring developer tools later we can get that to change automatically for us once we enable spring
developer tools but I'll show you that in a later video.
So just quickly recap what's going on here.
Toggle back over to Intel Jay now setting up the timely template.
The key parts are on line two to import the X Excel namespace.
And in this case we are using the line 16 we're using a timely iterator for t h colon.
Each we take in the books property from the model that was rendered from Spring Spring MVC.
That gives us a book variable.
And this is going to iterate for each book it's going to iterate over and create this block for us for
our table rows.
All right.
So that is a quick introduction to timely so you can see how nice it is to work with when you have a
natural Temple doing so and you can do your development on Easter email and toggle over and see your
changes right away inside the browser.
You saw what a clean language does too.
We only went in about this deep onto timely finance capabilities but as a quick example I was able to
take an object out of the database using spring data JPA run it through Spring MVC to the timely for
you layer where we had a list of Po Joes and we rendered that list on a web page so you can see it once.
Once we got this down it's a pretty seamless process to develop web applications using the spring framework.